slack handbook section - initial (#59)
pyOpenSci/handbook: community/slack.md

* **#discourse-updates:** this channel flags new Discourse posts so that we can keep track of them in a single place. This channel also announces a new package when it’s posted in the Discourse pyOpenSci packages forum. The bot was built and maintained by Chiara Marmo.
* **#feed-software-review:** this channel tracks new review submissions in our software-submission GitHub repo. This feed helps pyOpenSci staff and its editorial team keep track of the cadence of submissions in a centralized location.
* **#github-issues:** this channel was created to make it easier to follow issues and pull requests opened in our core Github repositories, as given the volume of activity it’s easy to miss new items.

## Setting up a Slack bot using Slack Workflows
Administrators in the pyOpenSci Slack space can set up [workflows](https://slack.com/help/articles/16583775096083-Automations--What-is-a-Slack-workflow), which are automated bots that complete tasks based on automatic triggers. We currently use a workflow to onboard new members to the Slack space, and if there are additional bots you feel would be helpful, please reach out to Leah or Jesse.

> ## Setting up an automatic feed to post from GitHub into Slack:

Reviewer: Here are a few note

* The slack integration settings [can be found here](https://github.com/pyOpenSci/software-submission/settings/installations) in GitHub. IF YOU HIT THE configure button, it will allow you to configure which repositories are available to the slack / github integration bot. 
<img width="880" alt="Screenshot 2024-05-30 at 2 46 37 PM" src="https://github.com/pyOpenSci/handbook/assets/7649194/480a1468-4056-4146-8cec-0db800301e71">

@kierisi the part that i can't remember here is how i initially set this up. It may have been by calling a command in slack which lead me to the initial setup. Or i may have [started on this website](https://slack.github.com/) where you can add the bot to an organization? 

does that help? the commands below that you wrote out look correct to me.

Author: @lwasser that helps! it looks like the link you've shared is the way to go in order to set up the integration for the overall slack workspace, so I can update everything!

## Slack’s limitations - nonprofit plan
pyOpenSci currently has a Slack paid plan that is provided at no cost for nonprofits. It allows up to 250 users and unlimited saved messages. While this solution currently meets our needs, it will become a challenge in the future as pyOpenSci continues to grow. The main concern is the loss of message history.

We initially chose Slack as most of our community members already had organizations on Slack, and many did not like Discord. As we look ahead and consider our future needs, it’s worth noting that some of our partners have moved to platforms such as Mattermost and Zulip.

## Slack for pyOpenSci Community Discussion
Slack is also used for broader pyOpenSci community discussion. However, it is currently invitation-only, which models the same processes used by rOpenSci. An invite-only model is important as pyOpenSci grows because:
* It allows us to grow carefully and slowly
* It allows us to create an inclusive environment that is evolving into a self-moderating community. This is significantly more challenging to do in an online community with large influxes of members.

> * Everyone invited to Slack has generally already contributed to pyOpenSci in some way, and therefore have a vested interest in the community upon joining.
> ### Who we invite to the community:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Everyone invited to Slack has generally already contributed to pyOpenSci in some way, and therefore have a vested interest in the community upon joining.

### Who we invite to the community:
```

Reviewer: it's a good idea to have a full line break after a section heading. can you please fix this throughout? sphinx might allow it but generally we want a return before a new heading for readability too!

Author: yes! I'll get that sorted - thanks for flagging!

We invite people to Slack who have contributed to pyOpenSci in some way. This can include attending and contributing via a sprint, submitting a package (normally this happens after the package has been accepted, but may occur earlier on an ad-hoc basis. Invites are rarely sent before the review is finished), being a reviewer or editor, contributing to a guidebook, or signing up to become involved. Often if someone signs up we meet with them prior to sending a Slack invitation.

> We also occasionally invite people that would be valuable contributors to our community in some way, even if they haven’t already contributed! These might be people who express interest in work we are doing and who want to learn more or get involved.

Reviewer: We might also invite people who are from partner community and/or are doing work that is mission aligned!

We have also strategically invited people with expertise in the field, including core packaging experts, community members and others with knowledge that is incredibly valuable to our community’s development.
### How we invite new community members

> Generally speaking, the Executive Director invites individuals who have not already contributed to pyOpenSci. These invitations are at their discretion, while package developers are usually invited by a pyOpenSci editor as part of the review process.

Reviewer: Just a note - ROS i think has the community manager invite people after reviews are done. i think they do it on fridays. we can feel out what works best here of ourse!

Author: @lwasser I have a calendar reminder to check our membership every Thursday (to grab folks that have been invited by editors so I can do a welcome post). I don't have insight into the review process at this point in terms of who's reviewing a package. would keeping an eye on github work? or do you have a suggestion for the best place to get that information?

* Whenever a new package is added to the pyOpenSci community, the pyOpenSci Community Manager double checks to ensure that all package authors have been added to Slack.

> * In instances where package developers have not yet been added, the Community Manager will send invites within three business days of the package being accepted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* In instances where package authors & reviewers have not yet been added, the Community Manager will send invites within three business days of the package being accepted.
```
